With the ion-grid covered, we now have two main components for structuring layout on that page.
It might not have been obvious but ion-list is essentially fulfilling a similar purpose,
it helps you layout items on a page.
So where is the important difference and when should you use which? Ion-list has a very narrow purpose
actually, it's there to help you render ion-item,
so really this one component which in turn might hold any kind of content vertically from top to bottom.
And of course especially in mobile apps but also on desktop apps,
we work a lot with lists,
lists are everywhere, in this course here,
the curriculum is a list. So that use case of structuring content from top to bottom is pretty common
and you actually have that quite a bit and whenever you have that scenario that you simply want to structure
content from top to bottom and you don't need specific control across its width, then you can use an
ion-list.
You should only include ion-items in there, that is important,
that is how the Ionic list just works,
it is optimized for working with ion-items regarding the looks and so on and in general as I mentioned,
use it for possibly scrollable vertical list content.
Now what you can do though is you can wrap your list with your grid because the list always takes the
full width of its container and if the container is the grid or a grid column to be precise, then you
can control the sizing of the list through the grid
and that takes us to the grid.
It can render any content inside of ion-column and that's important because you always must have that
structure of having an ion-row or multiple ion-rows in your ion-grid as a direct child or direct children
and then inside of the ion-row, you always must have ion-columns, one or multiple ion-columns which
are also the only direct
children of ion-row. But inside of ion-column, you then can have any content you want, be that a div, a
paragraph, a h1 tag or an ion-list or any other component or element, that is all fine.
So the two can actually work together quite nicely,
you can also have an ion-grid inside of ion-item
inside of an ion-list for example and therefore, you basically use the grid whenever you have content
that needs a more complex structure, where you want to have items sit next to each other in the same
row or where you need to control the width or the positioning, the alignment of items.
Whenever you have just top to bottom content, use an ion-list and if you need to set that width, you either
do that directly through CSS or by wrapping it into an ion-grid.